---
published: false
---

## Fighting the Demon

Today, I was loitering along my vast city found myself in among the darkest part of the city and bore witness to a very dark and heinous crime- rape. The incident overwhelmed me so much that I needed  to form a definitive analysis and try to pinpoint the cause and prevention of any such incident in the future.

A fifteen minute walk from the sovabazaar metro and across the infamous red light area, I was in a dark alley among the streets of sonagachi. A few drunk middle aged men playing 29 and betting on the road beside a pile of garbage that reeked of sanitary waste were the only humans that were around. As my eyes shifted to the far end of the road, I could make out a few people from the faint silhouette caste from the dim lit street light. As I moved closer, I could hear burbling of the most disgusting slangs and filthy language that one could ever possibly think of. And amidst all the quarrel, I could easily make out it was all directed towards one lanky guy. Poor fellow I thought! Then suddenly one of them was pinned to the ground. Another street fight! 
But no it wasn't, I just realized the person pinned was a in fact a very young girl. From the fact that she wore jeans and a t-shirt, I can only assume she was in her mid twenties. Two more guys pounded her near her shoulder while one of them bend down over her waist. This is no mere fight, this is rape!!...
A few seconds more and the shrieking of the young girl filled the air. Women opened their windows, looked down from the neighboring houses and grimaced at each other. None of them did make any slightest attempt to defend the honor of a fellow girl. The guys were probably either pimps or powerful people with rather strong connections whom these women didn't want to displease if they had to earn a livelihood.
My mind was in the most painful torture ever. Neither could I bear the continuous shrieking from her pain reaching my ear nor did I have the strength to stop such a thing from happening. Fleeing was the first thing that came across my mind. But if someone noticed that I did not have the heart to bottle up what I just saw, they might kill me in order to save their skin.
So instead, i mustered all my courage and convinced my faculties to become emotionally detached from whatever was happening. The lack of empathy that I brought out in me was soon followed by immense curiosity. I wanted to know what made those rapists do whatever they are doing. If all I can do about the current situation is watch or run, I better make it a learning experience.
I lit up a smoke and leaned on to a damp wall and inspected closely at their actions. The guy who was humping on to the poor girl was not at all enjoying the sex. In fact, several occasions he had to excite himself, harden up before resuming to ravaging her. He was rather enjoying the pain that the poor girl was suffering. Rape was about violence, it was not about non consensual sex, contrary to the legal definition. He simply beat her up and it gave him more energy. The louder the girl cried, the faster he went. All of a sudden, he opened up a twisted pocket knife and slashed it across her waist and while the poor girl withered in pain, the guy released in pleasure. It was far from over as the other guys took turns to raping her while the rest pinned her down and tortured her so that his friend could feel the pleasure.

#Cracking their psychology

After observing this for 5 whole minutes, it was too much, I could not bear any more. I quietly and calmly walked down the alley back to the main road to prevent any suspicions. The thing that I learnt is that a girl cannot defend herself from rape by learning karate or carrying pepper spray, those demons will always come in groups and even if a girl had a gun she still would not be able to defend herself against so many. To beat them, she has to beat their psychology and manipulate them with her mental strength so that the rapists themselves choose to leaver her. Her best course of action then will be to simply lie down like a lifeless dead body and let the rapists do whatever they wanted. When they won't be able to get a reaction from her, they will never be excited and can never be hard enough to have sex, let alone rape. But the problem is, it is very difficult for any woman to remain calm and composed at a situation like that especially after the amount of fear that the media has installed in everybody.
So, a woman needs to psychologically train her mind and condition it so that she can handle herself automatically if such a situation ever arises.
This psychological training is not very difficult but it requires some amount of sincerity. This training is similar to how vaccine develops immunity for a particular disease. Every woman needs to get out of her protective shell and expose herself to very slight uncomfortable situations. Slight enough that does not cause harm to her but she is building up tolerance to physically uncomfortable situations.

This building up of tolerance will not only help someone to fight rape but will teach them to keep cool at the most adverse situations. When everyone else will be in a state of panic, she will calmly use her brain and steer a way out of that situation.

