---
published: false
---


Destiny is indeed a pecuiliar thing. While some people may believe in it and others may not, everyone has an opinion about. Interesting it gets, when a debate on such a topic is spiked. Eventually all such debates boils to down to two concrete statements, people who believe that their destiny is bound and have no control over the future and others who believe that everyone creates their own destiny and they have complete control of their future. Observing such a debate, one can easily notice there are extremely valid points on both sides. While there are numerous examples of people who rose from poverty and amassed great fortune proving that a man is capable of creating his own destiny, there is an equally compelling thought that a blind person can never become a pilot, even if he devotes his entire life to such an ambition. Then if neither statements are completely true, the question remains what is detiny?

The understanding of destiny is not a single concept but rather an assimilation of several concepts involving the past, present and future of person's life. It is more like a plan for the future taking into account the innnate personality of an individual. So, if a person is good in maths and sports, he might be destined to become a sports analyst or something similar in the future or a very curious person, who is good at science might be destined to become a scientist in future. Destiny is determined by a person's talents. But if it was so simple, then why there are so many people wasting their talents while living a pathetic life. It is because many fail to understand the nature of destiny.

> Destiny is not the future we want but the future we need.

Do we really know what we need? We don't even know the future so how can we ever know what we might need in the future. We just know what we want in the present and we believe it is the only thing that we need. We might need to suffer pain in the present so we can understand the beauty of pleasure in the future or we might need to suffer failure so that we learn to deal and solve our problems next time.  In a more metaphysical sense, there are different energy levels at which different elements of the world are vibrating continuously, including us. When we get involved with any element, that vibrates with the same frequency as ours, we start to resonate and in the physical world, we are said to be compatible with that element. So, at any current situation, there are a particular set of things in the world with which we are most compatible with, depending on our own physical traits, and when we interact with these things, we bring forth a future that is a result of this interaction. This future can be called destiny because it is a result of our interaction with the things we are most comfortable with. This is clarified better in the following example.

>Generally, emotional, fun-loving and free thinking people never abstain from drinking. Now, if such a person is suddenly feeling depressed, their emotional side might get the better of them giving them the most comfortable choice of drowning their sorrow in pegs of whisky. A direct result of these 'comfortable decisions' can be cirrhosis of liver or some major illness. Then can we say, all fun loving people and free thinking people are destined to be drunkards?

No, we cannot say anything like that. It is because even though we have a destiny, we are not bound to it. This is callled the choice of Destiny. We can choose to follow the 'comfortable choice' in front of us or choose to make a rather difficult choice. This choice is difficult not just because one has to overcome the temptation of the easy way but because this choice requires one to completely reinvent oneself. It requires one to believe in his destiny to such an extent that he changes his entire personality for this choice. When a person is ready to reinvent oneself for a destiny of their choice, their traits change and so does their compatibility with other things in the world. A reinvented person will now have different taste, different likings, different routine and a completely different perception in life. Fortunately, this compatibility is not random but a specific of set of those things which will help them to achieve their purpose. And that is how they can change their destiny. In the metaphysical sense, the person moves on to a different energy level and the transition to this level requires immense energy from outside or might release energy to the environment, if he chooses to go to a lower energy level. In this new energy level, he is vibrating at a different frequency and so he is now compatible with objects which vibrate at the same frequency as his. The resonance of all these objects together bring forth a step forward in his direction to his new destiny.

>The Choice of Destiny is the ability to choose your destiny and once chosen every step that you take is ultimately guiding towards your destiny with you having no control over it.

But the question remains is it possible for everyone to reinvent oneself to such an extent that they are capable of changing their destiny and if someone has the ability to reinvent onself and some others do not then can we not say some people are destined to change their destiny and others have no control of their destiny. Ultimately, its a paradox and will always be a food for deeper thoughts and graver conclusions.
